---
title: Magic
excerpt: An introduction to the art of Magic in Aurii.
---

Magic is a powerful force that trained scholars use in the realm. Formally magic is harnessing the elemental forces of the world to guide them to do one's bidding. Mages study for their entire lives to make even a single breakthrough in the study of magic. Spells are cast through long rituals which take time to cast, often an hour or longer. Researching into a new spell often becomes a Mage's life work. Those who have created a new spell, added to the collective knowledge of magic as a whole, are called Sages. 

Hours is far too long for a mage on a the battle field to wait to throw fire at their enemies. One of the greatest discoveries in magic was the art of creating Tomes. Rituals are cast sequentially into a specially prepared book, embedding the power of the spells into it's pages. When the page is read from the tome, the spell's energy is released immediately. This craft is immensely popular for combat spells and is used by every mage on the battlefield. 

In many ancient writings about magic the categories of magic aren't called what they are called today. Anima magic is refered to the *natural magic* or *ordered magic* and has definitions referencing that it *follows the natural order.* Dark magic is written as *elder magic*, *unordered magic*, or *unnatural magic*. Definitions for it all center around two topics, *tribute* or *defying nature*. Light magic is rarely referenced in what writings have been found. When it is referenced, it's referred to as *ordering magic* or *pure magic*. Definitions are too vague to be summarized when it comes to light magic, often what the texts refer to is something that no one can do with current light magic. Sages debate frequently on the existence of a possible fourth branch of magic that could explain this, but never come to an answer. 

### Categories of Magic:

* **Anima**: The three primary elements, Wind, Electricity, and Fire are called the Anima elements. Other elements can be derived from these three, though it is a more advanced art. 
* **Light**: Light magic is primarily casted by those in the clergy. Weaker than the Anima elements but more reliable, Light magic functions in the same way Anima does, yet no attempts to study it as Magecraft have yielded fruit. In fact, only a person who believe in their faith can cast a Light spell, and new spells are discovered in unearthed religious documents rather than discovered. The faith one has is not important, only that one believes in it. It's possible for a man who truly believes slaughtering men and women is right to cast light magic. Light magic is powered by unwaviering belief. 
* **Dark**: Dark magic is often called Elder magic by those who study it, tired of the stigma that comes with the term "Dark". Dark Magic is more powerful than Anima by a grade, but each spell comes with quirks and caveats that make them less reliable. It often requires a tribute while casting spells, be it in the form of vitality or something more precious. The study of Dark magic is tolerated but universally considered best "seen but not heard" (In reality, best unseen and unheard.) Dark mages often do not introduce themselves as such because of this. The study of Dark magic tends to attract intellectuals whose curiousity outweights their interest in being accepted. Dark magic is a rabbit hole, dark and dangerous but with great mysteries to be discovered as one gets deeper and deeper.
* **Healing Arts**: A set of spells dedicated to the restoration and healing of the humanoid body. While universally useful and some of the most used spells in the world, there has been little progress in researching them for the last few decades. There's only so much the human body can be healed at once. 