---
title: Lore
excerpt: The Story of Aurii
---
<!-- Chaultia -->

# Era in the Eraian Calendar

* Pre Lylalel's Lights
* Era of Lylalel's Light
* The Eraian Crusades
* Theanovenian Renaissance 
* The Drecian Conflict (The current Era, maybe part of the renaissance)
* (Event) The Unsealing of the Goddess
* The Purified Era

# In The Beginning...; Pre Lylalel's Light

In the beginning, there was only Lylalel and Lyarlel, twin dragons of immeasurable power. Lyarlel, a creative force, challenged himself to produce things of beauty upon Aurii. First came water and mountains, after that came plants and animals. He prided himself in the natural order of all of his creations. The wolf ate the deer and the deer ate the grass.

He showed we had created to Lylalel, and she was impressed. She asked Lyarlel if she could add one element to the world he had created. He, loving his twin, agreed immediately. Lylalel explained then that the world he created adhered too strongly to the natural order, too much to the repeating cycle. She felt that what the world needed was a rogue element; something to pull the world from it's order, and push it back on the path. Lyarlel was skeptical of this, but trusted his twin. It was with this, that Lylalel created mankind.

At first, the dragons saw more of the same. Humans fell into the natural order, being killed by the wolf and killing the deer. Lyarlel was amused, and teased his twin. Lylalel bid her time, waiting for humans to reach their potential. Soon, they did. Their intelligence gave them the ability to invent, learn, and adapt. They began to defeat the wolf, despite Lyarlel's order to all things. Lyarlel admitted defeat to Lylalel in good faith. The humans inspired change in his work, and he found that beautiful as well. In concession, he consummated his twin's addition to the world by creating the Laguz; man that were able to take the form of beasts, truly a mix of both dragon's influence. He created four races, one in the north from the powerful wolves, one in the west from the unassuming rabbits, and two for the mainland who embody the felines that room it's plains.

The dragons watched the world from on high, letting it evolve on it's own thanks to the randomness of Humans. As man progressed though, it began to move around the natural order of things. With the invention of spear and fire, the wolf was no longer a threat to man. With stone walls, storms no longer displaced man from his home. Lyarlel grew frustrated. As Lylalel said, these humans pulled away from the natural order but they never returned to it. It changed and modified his world. Forests disappeared, mountains were disemboweled, and animals were permanently removed from Aurii. 

Lyarlel approached his twin and told her of his frustrations. She beseeched him to be patient, to see the whole of Aurii come to it's conclusion on it's own. Lyarlel wasn't willing to listen to her. Lyarlel's art, his masterpiece was infected by these humans, and he wanted them struck from it. Lylalel stood her ground. The dragons took ethereal form, traveling the blooming kingdoms of the world. She showed Lyarlel how humans took after the two of them, how they create beauty like Lyarlel himself, and evolve and encourage change like Lylalel. Despite her show, Lyarlel was unconvinced. A new race could be created from their initial mistake, he told Lylalel, one that could evolve without taking control of the realm they dwell in. Lylalel stood her ground.

Already on the mortal plane, the argument between the two dragons came to a head. Shedding their incorporeal forms they appeared before their creations, before all of creation. Lyarlel took things which came under his domain, the land, sea, plants, and animals and brought them against the Humans. Lylalel's creations, sorely outnumbered in what was truly Lyarlel's realm, were given a sole gift to defend themselves with. Lylalel gave them understanding of the language of the gods, a runic language that produced magical effects powered by the twin dragons themselves. She told the humans that their understanding of this language would fade by the end of the generation; to protect man from it's influence. 

Humans, wielding true magic through both twin's powers, faced off against Lyarlel's creations. Lyarlel was enraged to see what Lylalel had give the humans. He knew the infection to his world would only use their dragon's powers to further destroy his creation, and would not hear of Lylalel's insurance it would fade from memory. Lyarlel challenged his twin, in the skies above the humans and animals. He swore that if Lylalel was so determined to corrupt his world, he would do so himself. Lyarlel placed a seed of his own power, fueled by rage and hate and an endless drive to return the world to the pristine state it once was, or dust trying, deep with in Aurii. The seed took root, pulling deeply from his power, creating leylines all across the realm. From these rivers of magical power came corrupting influences that ensnared the life on Aurii. Demonic, magical beings came to be from the animals and humans the leyline's power touched. These beings attacked humanity, striving to fulfill Lyarlel's one goal of cleansing his creation of the virus his twin created.

Lylalel and Lyarlel clashed above Aurii in a battle that would inspire religions around them. It over a year before the battle would be done. Below humans fought desperately against Demons and the rest of Lyarlel's influence. Magic permeated the air; human's spells powered beyond Lylalel's expectation by Lyarlel's leylines and demons moving about, bringing more living things under the influence of the leyline's corruption. The battle lasted weeks, the dragons never stopping and the humans nearly destroyed. Seeing this, Lylalel decided there could be only one right way to end the conflict. She could not allow the enraged, wild dragon her brother had become to continue to create things in this world. 

Lylalel created a seal of her own; one that encompassed all of Aurii. She tied all of the dragon's power to the seal; such that both she and Lyarlel would be contained with in it, so long as it remained unbroken. The seal purified the leyline's dark influences, preventing the corruption from coming through the leylines. The gods of the world were now sealed within it, preventing the corrupt leylines spawned from their infighting from destroying Aurii. Humanity was left on it's own, the world returning to the order Lyarlel was once so proud of. 

Somethings didn't go as planned, however. Runic magic was to fade from the world after the generation Lylalel bestowed it to; removing magic from Aurii once and for all. The knowledge of the magic did fade, none could remember how to read or write in the language of the gods. Yet due to Lyarlel's leylines seeping magic into the world (Lylalel's Seal only cleansed the magic, it did not prevent it from reaching Aurii) the magic itself still existed. Not only that, some written records were retained in the world, due to the leyline magic protecting them from Lylalel's planned erasure. Most things on in Aurii were destroyed during the fight between the dragon gods, but many of the ruins had clues or writings about the now forgotten language of the gods. All due to the leylines, magic stayed on Aurii, ready for humans to learn slowly over centuries of effort. 

## Elbia

Lylalel a strange habit, in the days before her and her twin's fall. She would disguise herself as human and walk among them, nudging them this way and that in their building of the world. She never told Lyarlel of these trips to his realm, time was meaningless to beings such as themselves so he never questioned where she went. Sometimes she spent years among man, other times only days. She loved to bond with the people on Aurii, to experience their lives with them. 

Occasionally... she became too invested. Each time she spent time on Aurii she grew a little more so, until a night of passion in a south eastern settlement left her in an unusual predicament. She become pregnant. Unsure of what such a thing would mean for a goddess, she disappeared to the northeast peninsula of Aurii. She used her abilities to carve out the makings of a city, all while wonder what to do.

She didn't have to wait long. Lylalel found herself in labor far sooner than a human woman would. She took on the birth alone in her city she dubbed Elbia. She was terribly surprised to find her child wasn't a child at all; it was an egg. Somewhat relieved, she built a shrine for the egg in Elbia and moved on, leaving the strange side effect of her courtships behind.

Lylalel took a break from consorting with the people of Aurii after her egg laying fiasco. Ever the fickle goddess, she fell back into the habit before long. She took the form of a male this time, ensuring she couldn't make the same mistake. This plan was unfortunately flawed in another way; those she consorted with could. It wasn't long before Lylalel's latest lover was with child. Lylalel spent the entire pregnancy waiting for the inevitable egg to be laid and to prevent her lover from panicking. Lylalel intended to knock her lover out and later tell her the child died during birth. It wasn't the most noble of plans... but it at least covered the goddess's tracks. 

Surprised again was Lylalel when her wife was with child normally, the full term and all. Lylalel seemed to get away with her foolhardy, until the child's wings sprouted. Lylalel's lover, *Illandria* was a noble woman who swore up and down her child was hers, and she'd love it wings or not. Impressed by the humans dedication, Lylalel whisked her away to Elbia. Lylalel revealed herself to Illandria, who took the fact that she bore a dragon woman's child as well as anyone could. It was a long and painful conversation, but the two reconciled after a few days. 

Also encouraging the reconciliation was Lylalel's discovery that her egg had hatched, while she was gone. Her child, a dragon winged child like her and Illandria's, was living in Elbia for alone for a years before the two arrived. Illandria, after absolutely berating the goddess for her negligence, told Lylalel that she would keep the two children under her protection in Elbia. Illandria took the first child in as her own. 

Lylalel stuck around for far longer than she ever had before. The *Manaketes*, a draconic term for blessed blood Lylalel dubbed the children, aged slower than humans. Illandria and Lylalel looked after children effectively their whole lives. They discovered that the manaketes could hide their wings, and showed an affinity to magic. Once the wings were hidden, the Manakete's only difference from humans were the pointed ears which were easily explained away. Lylalel and Illandria also, being a loving couple with access to the powers of a goddess, had more manakete children together. By the time of Illandria's passing, There were six Manakete on Aurii, all old enough to hide their wings. 

Lylalel knew she must return to Lyarlel, back to her true role as a goddess. She encouraged people she had met running errands for Illandria in the past decade to move to Elbia, nudging them with her silver tongue. A small group of settlers came to fill out the city, and Lylalel set up the manakete as the royal family of the city. The settlers took to the manakete and Elbia was born. The city had every building and plaza the settlers could ever need. They set up trade with other settlements and the city thrived. Elbia became the largest city on Aurii before the twin gods came to blows. 

As the eldest of the manakete finally grew to an appearance and maturity where courtship was acceptable, they began to take after their celestial mother. They stayed with humans, and mixed race manakete were born. Families that knew of Manakete's existence began to crop up here and there, though only rumors left Elbia. Lylalel's children were careful in their frivilousness. By the time the twin gods came to blows, The six pure blood manakete all had reached an appearance of 20 somethings, and were incredibly old and wise. They had children from different human generations, a few dozen half blood manakete wandered Elbia's streets. 

When the twin gods came to blows, Lylalel blessed all of humanity with magic. She came to Elbia specifically, beseeching her children to stay safe and hidden. The people of Elbia took to magic quickly, guided by the Manakete royals. Elbia had dozens of powerful mages before long, and the manakete found themselves with an additional ability. Lyarlel's leylines and certain gemstones, those created by their mother when she built Elbia centuries ago, had combined to become dragonstones. The stones pulled on the power of the leylines and gave the manaketes the ability to take the form of a dragon. Between the mages, the revelation to Elbia proper that children of the goddesses lead them, and the dragonic forms they could now take Elbia felt assured they could repel Lyarlel.

Lyarlel, however, was merciless. Discovering the 'abominations' that Lylalel had brought onto his world, he directed as much of his power as he could against Elbia. The people of Elbia stood little chance against armies of daemons, constant rockslides from the mountain they were built into, and the seas themselves coming against them. Lyarlel sieged Elbia with everything he had, holding of Lylalel's attempts to save her children.

The city fell, months before the battle between the twin gods ended. The manakete, strong enough to escape, scattered to the winds. They took to Lylalel's request to stay safe and hidden and spread out, making sure Lyarlel could never target a place because of them again. The humans of Elbia, advanced mages had they had become, were crushed under the daemon hordes. Elbia was left as a ruin, empty as the day Lylalel built her from stone. Elbia still contains secrets of magic in it's temple and walls, though much of the city was buried under the rockslides. The manakete vowed to never return... until it was their time to die. 



# The Birth of the Nations; The Era of Lylalel's Light

Humanity, post the Intervention of Lylalel, was mostly gathered in the western portion of the mainland. Any prior civilizations, particularly Elbia, were lost to Lyarlel's machinations, reclaimed or destroyed by nature. The humans left had survived a war between literal gods and were left in awe of the greater beings. They knew nothing of the dragons beforehand, and very little of them from the Intervention itself, mostly the names of the dragons and the terms of the magic Humanity had been granted. Most stood behind Lylalel; she had granted them magic and sacrificed herself to to protect them from Lyarlel, so she must be good. 

## Wynne

Some however understood Lyarlel's message; that humanity had gone too far and were losing respect for the earth beneath them. Those who felt this way were in the clear minority, and the followers of Lylalel weren't receptive of the alternate view point. In fighting broke out in the fledging towns between those who condemned Lyarlel, and those who understood him. Eventually it came to a head; a woodcutter by the name of *Beornn Frith* rallied those who supported Lyarlel's view behind him. Rather than combat the followers of Lylalel, he and the people he inspired packed up their lives and sailed north, far from the supporters of Lylalel. They curved around the mainland and found themselves on the northern island of Aurii. 

The humans under Beornn laid claim to the southern shores of the island they called *Gawic*, finding the unsettled island to be a good home for them to build a nation which respected nature as it is, not a tool for man to control. They built the foundation for the nation Wynne under Beornn's leadership. Soon the fledging town Coudell attracted the attention of the Naissankari (wolf laguz) native to the island. A handful of skirmishes broke out between the two races, the Wynnites unable to communicate with the Naissankari who refused to treat with the humans. Over time an unspoken peace was formed; the Naissankari had their own boundaries in the woods which Wynnites were to respect. So long as the Wynnites did not cross the boundaries of the Naissankari land, the Naissankari would tolerate the Wynnite presence on Gawic (ancestrally called *lumisade* by the Naissankari). 

Wynne, peace with the natives brokered, grew at a relaxed pace. They respected the land, as Lyarlel wished them to. Over time, the image of Lyarlel became replaced with that of those who fell to the harsh climate, and the animals who taught them how to survive in it. Rumor spread of a man who was lost in the woods in a snowstorm, only to have a spectral wolf guide him home. This was simply a Naissankari doing a good deed, but it helped Wynne shift to a belief system that was spiritual in nature. They came to believe in guardian animals who are reincarnations of their loved ones, guiding them to survive. They came to believe nature itself was the god, rather than a dragon that fought another over nature.

Wynnites respected strength, to survive in the cold climate they now call home. Along with their shift way from the dragon gods of old, they lost a sense of the divine. Instead the only powers that be are humans who had returned to nature. As there was no greater power in the world to compare themselves to, Wynnites found themselves ever challenging their ability to exceed human limits. Their leaders were the strongest among them, those who could lead and hunt and a rousing speech in the same day. 

The relationship between the Naissankari and the Wynnites was stable all this time, and was well on it's way to never changing. It did however change, when a young Wynnite man fell into a ravine during a powerful snowstorm. The man was in his late 20's, on a challenge to prove he has what it takes to challenge the current chieftain to various people in the community. In the ravine *Ror* found himself face to face with an injured wolf. A boulder had fallen on her leg, pinning her in the ravine alone. He helped the wolf, and he was then met with a beautiful woman with snow white hair. She was *Frostve*, the chieftain of the Naissankari's daughter. Neither spoke of their roles at home however. 

They huddled together, talked of different worlds and what it was like in the other's. The two fell in love over the day and a half they were stuck together, and only survived due to one another. The Naissankari came first, finding Frostve back in her wolf form. She told her people of how Ror saved her from a cold death and they helped him escape as well. They then left, leaving Ror only to wish to meet his love again. He returned to his own village, hailed a miracle for surviving the storm, and was given the blessing he wanted in challenging the chieftain. Before he did, he found his way back to the ravine... Only to meet Frostve, looking for him as well.

The two met frequently in the woods after that, bonding further. It came to a point where Frostve decided she would be with him, separate people's or not. She brought him before the Naissankari that very day, much to his surprise. It was dramatic evening, but Ror's passion for Frostve was apparent. He also was the first Wynnite to get the chance to explain their culture to the Naissankari, who found they had more in common than either had ever would have guessed. In addition to blessing the union of the two, Frostve's father declared that it was perhaps time for the Naissankari to introduce themselves to Wynnites. This was an equally dramatic affair, but with Ror speaking for them the Wynnites quickly came to accept the Naissankari. After all, the Naissankari were the perfect marriage of nature and humanity, how could they not be fellows to the Wynnites? 

From that day forward, Naissankari were welcome in the Wynnite lands and conflicts between the two ceased entirely. Wynnites, out of respect for Naissankari tradition, were only allowed to the Naissankari home Roren by invitation, though the chieftain of Wynne is always invited at least once to meet his peer. 

With the entire island now shared between the two cultures dwelling on it, the Wynnites set themselves to a challenge no Wynnite had ever succeeded at before. The capture of a pegasus, winged horses that were native to the mountains of Gawic. The creatures were always able to escape to Naissankari lands before, and the Naissankari lacked the tools to climb the mountainsides themselves. The greatest hunters and athletes from each culture joined together, making a public show of their attempt. It took better part of months, but the group were able to capture the first pegasus.

The pegasus was wild, untameable and absolutely not ridable. All of Wynne was about to give up on the beasts before a young girl happened to pass the pegasus. Whatever magic was at foot, it connected the two. The girl was able to not only approach, but ride the pegasus in due time. Over the last decade it was determined more pegasus would be willing to take to a certain rider, but only that rider. However, when bred the resulting pegasi were far more amiable to humans. They're still quite skittish of Naissankari, as they can smell the wolf on them, but bred pegasi are able to be ridden by more than just the one person wild pegasi happen to connect to. In the last few decades before the Eraian Crusades, Wynne put together a flying force of Pegasus Knights, a few squadrons of warriors riding upon pegasus back. It's a small force, barely a two dozen in number, but little can interfere with a pegasus knight's mission. 

## Eraia

TODO: Add note about Lylalel being drawn as a winged dragon

Those who stayed behind on the western half of the mainland (*Hagate*) were devoted to the worship of Lylalel, the dragon of light who saved them from the dark dragon Lyarlel. The first leader of the Church was actually a solider *Aldwyn Threda*, a man who lead his fellows in the *blessed generation* against Lyarlel's daemons and servants. He stumbled into the role, to be entirely truthful. He was the man dedicated to making a new home for humanity, one that would properly honor Lylalel's splendor. He lead the people in droves to the *Colme Cove* to the south, establishing a city on the cove's waters. This city would go on to be Lyall. 

Alwyn's own interests were in building monuments to preserve the story of Lylalel's defeat of Lyarlel for all time. Others came in around him, encouraging oral and written tradition as the rumor mill filled new facts about Lylalel. The city attracted followers in droves, and the larger the population the more the original story of Lylalel's coming warped into something larger and more complex due to different accounts, rumors, and in some cases even lies. Alwyn himself stayed on track, producing the first iteration of Lyall's beautiful cathedral from Onyx stone, mined from the mountains to the east. The Onyx stone became a trademark of churches built in Lylalel's honor.

Many of the new buildings cropping up in Lyall had paintings and murals of Lylalel on them. Each artist drew the goddess slightly differently, but one trend that took off was drawing Lylalel with feathered wings, rather than the draconic wings she had. It made her seem holier, somehow and more artists than not joined the trend. History took to this interpretation of Lylalel, and she is believed to have had feathered wings rather than her own. 

As the religion solidified and the city built itself up around it, some were unhappy with the result. Those who stuck with the worshippers simply out of promise of a new home after the old world was destroyed by Lyarlel loved the city of Lyall but found the increasingly rigid rule of the church to be too much. This moderate faction kept to itself mostly, a quiet thing to discuss with other members of the group. Another faction was far more vocal than they were about the Church of Lylalel which kept the moderate faction out of the eyes of the church. 

Those born after Lylalel's coming, and therefore not part of the Blessed Generation, wanted to know the secrets of magic. The Blessed Generation explained time and time again that gift was temporary, and they would be the only generation to use such magics. The tension between the aging Blessed Generation and the pro magic faction rose slowly but surely. The infighting between the two grew harsher, until finally a leader *Rida Winyeue* rallied all those that found Lyall's leadership to be corrupt and hording. With support from the more stable yet passive moderate faction, a rebellion was formed against the Church of Lylalel, Rida at the head. 

The rebellion lead by Rida was a harsh, week long affair. The magic of the Lyall leadership helped them keep control of the city, yet they could do nothing as the rebels gained support. At the end of the week, the High Cardinal himself came before the rebellion, seeking terms. Rida was insistent on access to the magic the Church was hiding away, but the leader of the moderate faction *Helmann Sige*, the base of her rebellion, undermined her. Helmann took a promise of supplies and being left alone by the church in return for his faction leaving Lyall for the north. Rida, outraged by the betrayal, was forced to accept a similar deal. Without the supplies the moderate faction provided them, Rida's rebellion would be easily squashed out. 

Well over a third of the city left Lyall in the follow week. Over half of those people went north with Helmann, and the remainder took ships south with Rida, swearing to return for the secrets the church was keeping from them. The High Cardinal *Gauwyn Folke* came before the remaining two thirds of Lyall's population. He spun a speech that would be remembered for generations, about how those loyal to the church are those truly blessed, and those who reject Lylalel's light simply must be shown the light. The speech would later inspire the Eraian Crusades, though Gauwyn simply wishes to rebrand the fledging nation as just that. It was during this speech the Kingdom of Eraia got it's name, coined by Gauwyn from some words in the language of the gods. 

While much of his true motivations, keeping Lyall together, were lost to time, Gauwyn would go down in history as the first Cardinal to 'bring Lylalel's light to the people, casting out those who rejected her' and 'blessing those who followed her, accepting all who would accept her'. This mentality became a gold standard for the Eraian people. As Lyall expanded and new members joined the clergy, a fervor came over the city. Soon the city would accept that their role in Lylalel's plan was to bring her light to all people, and if they resisted they simply had to be shown her glory. Eraia's military expanded from a token force to fall under the church's supervision, letting the church fund a force that could properly spread Lylalel's message the word around them. Eraia built themselves up, the fervor reaching all the way back to Gauwyn's speech driving them to become an impressive, powerful nation. Trisp and Estad were founded during this time. 

Eraia never forgot about the Blessed Generation, though the details of their blessing from Lylalel were lost to time. Instead, the church focused on how they could achieve the magic that the Blessed Generation had access to (The irony of this being Rida's reason from splitting from Eraia lost to time). Eraia had the largest collection of documentation from the Blessed Generation and scholars dedicated their lives to even find words from the language of the gods. It took centuries of study but Eraia was the first culture to access Light Magic, defining the category of spells as Renassiance Aurii does now. 

Soon Eraia's military strength was leagues beyond the young nation of Callora to the north, and the Kissaelain to the south. The fervor started long ago when Gauwyn unintentionally inspired the concept of a crusade, and now Eraia was ready to begin. 

## Callora

The moderate faction of the Eraia rebels traveled north. Unlike the people who would found Wynne, this group traveled by land. They made their way around the mountains, leaders such as Helmann Sige discussing what the massive of people were going to do with themselves. Some, true to the name, were quite moderate in opinion, just looking to live peacefully. Two other opinions formed as the rebels traveled. The first was from a woman by the name of *Cilia Lyne*, who felt rather than just separate themselves from the church they should do everything in their power to prevent some other theocracy from rising and taking power. She gained a fair amount of traction with the group. *Rousek Bomir* on the other hand took issue with any sense of order. He felt holding themselves to the traditional leadership roles was a major weakness, and fellow chaotically minded individuals joined him. 

As the people discussed what they wanted in their new country, Helmann, Cilia, and Rousek all realized there was more than enough space and people to split up. See what worked, see what didn't. They discussed in closed council, then proposed it to the collected people. The decision was unianimous, with everyone getting what they wanted. Cilia took those who agreed with her north west, to *Hagate Spire*, the pennisula at the top of Hagate. Rousek went east, nestling himself along the north side of the *Penmyrth Mountain* range, the eastern range standing opposite to the *Llanfyll Mountains*. Helmann's people stayed right where they were, dead center in the northern half of Hagate. 

### Etrina

Helmann's people built themselves up on many of the traditions once held by Eraia. Helmann served as ruler of the nation, though in his own era he was more akin to an overworked mayor. However the people were happy and the northern plains were prosperous to live on. The Northern sea provided fish, the plains were littered with deer and horses, and mining was plentiful from the Llanfyll Mountains. Horses became key to Etrina's economy, exporting the captured and tamed wild horses to the neighboring fledgling nations. 

Helmann lived a long time, but eventually passeed peaceful. He died a bachelor, never marrying, and it left the fledgling nation with a deliemma of who was to take charge. Panic built up in the new town before a former con artist stepped up. He spoke with a silver tongue and woo'd the lost people into supporting him running the town. It was a cushy job for *Aril Etrina* as the people of the town already knew what they were doing. He was a lazy leader, nothing compared to Helmann, but he kept things 'normal' for the people in town. Over time, Aril pushed that the kingdom would one day need a name, and he would be so humble as to give his own for such a grand purpose. It took, and Etrina became the name of the nation.

Aril had many children, with many wives. His final speech to the town was to tell them Aril had trained his first born son with everything he knew, and he hoped his son would guide them as he had. The people, par for the course, accept this and the monarchy was born. Etrina built up quickly, despite it's dubious leadership. Some of the Etrinian line were quite dedicated to their role. Others were as lazy as their ancestor Aril. In addition to the horses, Etrina's wide open plains lead well to farmland and Etrina became the largest farming nation on Hagate. Providing food and livestock set the nation up to be just as cuhsy as Aril would have liked. 

Etrina City itself grew large and impressive, full of people who enjoyed to rub shoulders with other well to do people. Those who followed Helmann's original image for the town, those who wanted to be left alone in peace, branched out of the city towards smaller farming villages nearby. Etrinian culture also created the concept of Knights on Aurii, warriors trained to serve a lord. (The Eraia counterparts were much too tied to the church to fit the role properly.) These knights were tasked with the defense of Etrina and did so by building up cavalry units. Fox hunting was used as an exercise when training these new units, and is attributed to fox hunting's popularity today. 

### Dwyr 

Those who followed Cilia to the northwest found themselves wandering almost aimlessesly for months. Cilia informed them, time and time again, that the right place to settle would appear. They simply had to look closely. Finally, Cilia found her place. A ruin, left behind from before Lylalel's Light era, was nestled in the northern most mountains of Hagate, the *Anolf Mountains*. This ruin contained remnants of the language of the gods, and Cilia declared this as the best place for her people to settle. Reading a random word from the ruins, she named the settlement Dwyr.

Dwyr built up slowly but steadly. Cilia oversaw every building, every farm that was built with a grand plan only she knew. She set up a council of founding families, and governed as a member of the council. While she had the support to do whatever she wished with the blessing of the Dwyr people, she insisted that all procedure go through the council, on which she held an equal vote to all other members. She knew setting the precedence would keep the people of Dwyr following the structure she was building for them.

Follow them they did. Cilia's council and grand plan of building the Dwyr kingdom was a resounding success, even after her death. Dwyr was zoned for each family to expand with their own dukedom of sorts, with plenty of room for the resulting farms. There was little infighting as Dwyr expanded to a full fledged kingdom. 

Dwyr quickly took to education in a two pronged fashion. Dwyr educated everyone as best they could, as the more intelligent the mind the better the decisions could be made. Additionally, Dwyr studied the ruin they built their kingdom around extensively. Linguistic study colleges (to become magical colleges, after the discovery of Anima Magic during the Eraian Crusades via the ruin) popped up in each nation in addition to the more standard colleges of thought. 

Dwyr had limited land for hunting and farming and did quickly reach a maximum on farms. Dwyr's people turned the ocean around them on the pennisula to suppliment their food supply. Dwyr diet frequently includes fish. Dwyr also produced a sizable fleet of ships to do this fishing, making Dwyr the owner of the first navy on Aurii.

Dwyr has little in the way of military at this time, instead relying on Etrina's in the case of Eraian pressure from the western coast. As Eraia grows bolder, Dwyr starts to build a meager ground forces. 

### Torshan 

Rousek lead his followers to the east, settling along the Penmyrth Mountain. The decision was entirely made as many of the people traveling with him were miners back in Eraia. Despite it's impulsiveness, the mountains were firtile with ore and material. Camps sprung up around the mines, with large bonfires dominating the central square. Every night the people would meet, eating the day's hunt around the bonfire while laughing and enjoying life. A handful of farms were formed, but hunting kept the village fed for the first few years. One night while drinking mead and enjoying the bonfire, a joke was bumbled and it came out as "Torshan". Rousek was so utterly amused by the word, more so due to the mead than comedic potential, that he drunkly declared the nation they were building was to be called Torshan. The young man who uttered the phrase first was immortalized in a way he would never live down.

Torshan's mines produced an excessive amount of stone. Stone building popped up all around the bonfires they called town square, first homes then refineries and workshops. Streets formed haphazardly and chaotically, and when no more building could be placed along the dirt roads, the dirt roads were torn up for cobble streets. The town seemed imposing, and potentially threatening to visitors from Etrina and Dwyr, due to the harsh lines and constant firelight coming from every workshop, refinery, and bonfire. Once you've walked the streets however, visitors found them bustling with activity. Torshan has people working at all hours and some buildings such as forges have fires going every day. The people are busy, bustling, blunt, and pleasant, if rough around the exterior. They all seemed to take after Rousek, beings of hardwork and a fair doze of chaos.

Rousek was all but king in Torshan, every man woman and child saw him as a fine leader. In his old age he made no effort to pass down the leadership to anyone in particular. True to his chaotic nature, he said 'whoever wants it can have it, so long as the guy who had it last is gone'. These words would live in infamy, twisted to Torshan's particular brand of chaos. He passed not long after that, and his second in command took over for him. 

*Ardich Cowler* wasn't a bad leader, but he was no where near as charismatic as Rousek ever was. It proved to be his downfall. An upstart who felt Ardich was "too meek to stand the fires of Torshan", staged a riot and coop. It was improvised, random, and completely unexpected. Still, people went along with it or defended Ardich, based on their own opinions. Campaigning was done mid street brawl, most of it boiling down to insults and repeating Rousek's quote about whoever wants it can have it. No one was killed in the rioting, it was more akin to a city wide bar fight. In the end, Ardich surrendered the leadership of the city (not without a solid hit on his ursper, breaking a few ribs), and the next morning things were business as usual. No one seemed to mind the change of leadership, they kept working, and the new 'king', as he drunkly declared after the brawl, wasn't in their way.

This was the beginning of Torshan's incredible royal turnover rate. Torshan never came to form a true noblity. Whoever was king got a nicer home, and perks to go along with the job of dealing with nobles from other nations. Despite that, the Torshan king or Queen at the time was simply the latest person to think they could do the last guy's job better. The longest tenure as king, excluding Rousek's lifelong 'rule', was four and half years, held by *Queen Lifhilda*. Each coup was as peaceful as a coup could be, always carrying shades of the drunk bar brawl that the first one was at heart. People weren't killed, and those who tried to kill during a coup were arrested. The coups and leadership changes were simply a Torshain tradition, a strange one that embraced the chaotic people who called it home.

Lifhilda was a beautiful woman, one who passed for a 'proper' noble like those from Etrina. She was also one of the most foul mouthed, wild children Torshan had ever produced. She held her reign as long as she did for a chance action she took, sending a ship north to see what could be found. What the ship found was Wynne, and Lifhilda ended up sailing out herself to meet with Wynne's chieftain. It was Lifhilda, wild child, who formed the first alliance with the Wynne people. Trade via sea boomed, though people rarely traveled between the two nations for leisure. 

Torshan grew into a walled capital, packed to the brim with people and buildings. A port city was built to facilitate trade, and a far amount of ships to go with it. Torshan became the primary exporter of stone, gems, and other mined materials for Etrina and Dwyr both, cementing their role in what would be the Callorian League. 


## Kissaelain Territories

The Kissaelain territories is the only "nation" to exist before and after the battle of the gods. Lyarlel created the Kissaelain, laguz who could turn into either a cat or tiger, on the savvanah of the southern Pennisula when he created all laguz. The Kissaelain lived half their lives in their animal forms, exploring the pennisula as one with nature, rather than building and changing Lyarlel's world. For this reason Lyarlel did not direct attacks at the Kissaelain during his battle with Lylalel; daemons in the area attacked the Kissaelain, but only because they happened to be there. What little society the Kissaelain had survived the battle, and they were left to continue living on the plains as Lylalel placed her seal.

Ironically, Lyarlel's even accidental attacks agaisnt the Kissaelain inspired them to form their first villages. Kissaelain gathered together in small groups with large swathes of territory in between groups, plenty of ground for hunting. Small huts of mostly sticks were the first buildings they had and most villages were more a meeting place than a home to any Kissaelain. Still, some Kissaelain endevoured to make their home more of a home, and they discovered how to create bricks from dried clay. These bricks contributed to handfuls of buildings in the villages of the Kissaelain. Most were comfortable to continue to their life style pre Light era, living out on the plains.  

This attitude changed after the Eraian rebels landed on their pennisula. The western most Kissaelain village began to force the invaders from their lands, and as they drove the humans further and further southeast they joined up with the other Kissaelain villages. For the first time the Kissaelain were witness to the power they held as a group. Finally driving the rebels out to sea, the Kissaelain broke up their aggressive push and returned home.

The Kissaelain began to make more efforts in their communities, realizing what they could do when they put their mind to it. Their villages went from a handful of buildings to enough to actually hold all of the members of the village, and the villagers stayed in town themselves. The Kissaelain progressed slowly, limited by the savvanah's resources. Wood was not easily obtained, and the bricks they had crafted took significant time to make. The homes of the Kissaelain were sturdy, if simple. 

The Kissaelain had limited knowledge, having been isolated from all humanity but the rebels they drove off. They may have found the value in community and working with other villages, but they didn't know concepts such as mining or many variations of crafting. It and the Kissaelain's ability to sustain themselves with their animal forms left the Kissaelain behind the curve on advancement compared to nations such as Eraia. Kissaelain culture remained very close to nature, and overly reliant on their animal forms. During the coming Eraian Crusades this would serve as their downfall. 

## Dreca

Rida Winyeue left Eraia with her rebels and a smattering of supplies. She and her people were angry over their loss in Eraia. They didn't force the secrets of magic from the blessed generation as they hoped, and they had never expected their uprising would force them out of their homes. The former rebels sailed south on Colme Cove, touching down on the southern pennisula of Hagate. They wandered east, looking for a place they could settle and build themselves up before going back to Eraia to get the knowledge that was being withheld from them.

The rebels came across the Kissaelain, a laguz race that could turn into either a cat or a tiger form. Kissaelain had been living on the pennisula since Lyarlel created them in the pre light era. The naturalistic people met the newcomer humans with concern. Not only were the rebels different from them, the rebels were armed and angry. The Kissaelain people met perceived hostility with hosility. Their newly formed villages and smattering of buildings were used as staging points, tigers herding the rebels away from their villages and communities. 

The rebels were unable to settle down after landing on the pennisula. Every other day Kissaelain would drive them from their camp site. They had no time to hunt, no time to gather. Kissaelain drove them further and further east in a snaking path through the various villages. As their supplies ran out, the rebels went as far south as they could, now on the east side of the pennisula. They'd lost many of their people and what little materials they had wouldn't last them any longer. They fortified a position and attempted to weather the laguz attacks as the remaining craftsman in the group built new boats for them to sail south with. They had no guarantee they would find land, but at least they wouldn't die as tiger food. The siege went on for over a week, but the boats came together in the nick of time. Less than half of the rebels who landed on the pennisula survived the trip across it, and those who remained sailed south as fast as they could. 

The rebels had no food left after a day at sea. They suffered the hunger and exhaustion with thoughts of revenge, how they would return and conquer Eraia, murder the animal people that had driven them to such cruel conditions. The rebels got their first blessing however when their ship ran aground on the southern island *Caham*. Their ship was destroyed but they were alive and no longer being attacked. They named the nation they would form Dreca, and began to build with earnest. 

Having the resources of the mountains and the woods easily accessible, and the sea filled with fish, Dreca had no problem booming. Their first city Locta built up frantically to match the pace of the citizens fervor to finally have a nation they could call their own. The reasons for the fervor, the Eraia explusion and Kissaelain assaults, faded with each generation. Dreca became a nation of nationalists, filling the island with people and proof that they were here and alive. 

The rapid expansion Dreca went under caused issues, despite the good intentions. Locta was a haphazardly built city, one of random streets and towers. The limited space of the island quickly curtailed the Drecians ability to build outward, and the city became overcrowded. Conditions in the city worsened, becoming unclean and dangerous as older buildings fell into disrepair. 

*Rithard Antwic*, a noteworthy architect with a lot of clout in Dreca made a power play. He moved his operations across the Winyeue bay and started planning. He built out a massive city plan that was designed for optimal space and comfort and invested heavily in building it. People with money in Locta quickly bought up land and homes in the new city, looking to escape the overcluttered city. Rithard died with a fortune despite his investments in the sister city he called Haland. He setup his family as the ruling council of Haland, with some of the other wealthy inhabitants taking seats as well. As all of the wealth had moved over to Haland, Locta ended up owned by people who don't live there. Locta's age and need for repair were obvious even without the overcrowding. The wealthy of Haland focus more on Haland than they do Locta, though they do enough to keep Locta only frustrated, never angry. 

Drecians discovered a secret to the island as Haland construction began. In the mountains that split Caham a remanant of Lyarlel's daemon race lay dormant. Wyverns, large psuedo dragon creatures were discovered in caves high in the mountains. 

Unbenknowst to the the new residents of Caham, wyvern had been here since the begin of the Lyalel's light era. The island was far enough from Lylalel's seal that the daemonic beasts weren't purified when she lay the seal. The presence of the humans woke the wyverns, who found themselves cut off from the magic that created them. In their long slumber their bodies had stablized, turned into beast rather than demon. Lyarlel intended for the daemons he created to fight Lylalel to join his natural world once the job was complete, and the wyverns were the only ones given the chance to evolve and do so. 

Drecians awoke the wyverns when they discovered, finding the beasts wild yet fairly docile. The Drecian military kept them a secret as they tested the limits of their docility. Dreca founded the Wyvern Corps and began to train the wyverns to take riders, unlocking a new weapon for their military. While the Drecians quickly tried to breed more, they learned wyvern's have an incredibly slow reproduction rate and by the time of the Drecian Invasion the Wyvern Corps had less than a hundred riders. 

Dreca's ruling class was the rich, but also included many of the high ranking military officals. When Dreca was formed being able to fight was a major asset to the ex-rebels, so military careers have always been well respected in Dreca. There was little need for military on the island, so the size the military could realisitically grow to was limited, but each officer and solider trained hard and assisted in other ways. Military officers supporting the civilians in building and hunting endeared them to the citizenry. 

# UNDER CONSTRUCTION


## The Eraian Crusades

* Widespread Magic a result of war engineering? 
* Callora forms to prevent Eraia’s expansion into their territory. Eraia’s encroachment into the Laguz territory is delayed by the new front against Callora
* Wynne allies with Callora, their trading partner.
* Eraia pulls back on both fronts. An uneasy peace is formed.
* Eraia starts Kissaelain slave trade?

> The Callora-Eraia conflict was effectively the first war for the continent. Eraia started by sailing to the south, conquering the much simpler nation of rabbit laguz on the south west island and expanding along the southern peninsula. Theanovene had not formed at this point.
>
> Eraia, seeing it could expand into the relatively barren plains of the south anytime, put it’s efforts towards the kingdoms to the north. (Remember, they aren’t actually Callora yet.) This war was crusade; a way to spread Lylalel’s light to all and enlighten those unwilling to accept. Fighting began in the west.
>
> Callora (the Kingdom, not the nation) saw kingdoms being steamrolled by the Eraian crusade. Eraia’s military was a super power, well trained and motivated by Lylalel. Individual kingdoms didn’t have the size or strength to compete with the well armed Eraia.
>
> Callora came to the aid of , helping repel Eraia in a single victory for the kingdoms. Callora then appealed to every kingdom in the north. Together we stand, together we fall. A summit was held with leaders of each kingdom, in the kingdom of Callora. The Alliance was formed there, under that mantra.
>
> The combined militaries of the kingdoms had their own motivation; every kingdom lost brought Eraia closer to their own. The Alliance blossomed and grew stronger. It has more land and people than Eraia when combined, which gave it a chance to catch up on Eraia’s military assets. This drove the conflict into a real war, not a march of victories for Eraia. It continued for years.
>
> Eventually the losses were piling up on both sides and Eraia called for a ceasefire. Eraia had the upper hand in negotiation, still being stronger, but they were graceful in terms because they knew Callora could muster more might if they were given more time.
>
> After the dust settled, the Alliance was left without it’s unifying purpose. Another summit was held and the kingdoms discussed. Many thought Eraia would be back. Others enjoyed the security of unity. Some didn’t. It was decided the Callorian Alliance would stay together as a unified group of independent kingdoms. A few refused (most prominantly Theanovene, a small city state that insisted on neutrality during the war) but most signed on to form the Alliance we know.

## Theanovenian Renaissance 

* Theanovene is formed.

## Drecian Invasion 

---

# Lifting the Seals

* As it turns out, the leyline continued to sap away at the dragon's power even while they were sealed. By the time they're released, they're basically dead and the leyline seed contains all of their power and is self sufficient, driven to it's objectives (return the world to prehumanity or turn it to dust).
* What dragonballs required to remove the seal? 
* Remove the seal, demons come back
* Purify the *seed*, to purify the leylines, no more demons, gods will fade away
* Destroy the seed, restore the gods, lose magic (unless the gods give it back)
* Does humanity come to understand the language of the gods?

# The Purified Era (Modern Times)