---
title: Sona's Character
categories: article
tags: aspn-blog
excerpt: Sona's character sheet and bio
---



# Character Sheet
```
**Sona Aurelia**

**Fate Points:** 3
**Stress:** [ ] [ ] [ ]
**Consequences:**
2  Mild:
4  Moderate:
6  Severe: 

**Aspects**

* I won't Hesitate to Avoid Getting Hurt
* My Will is Stronger than Iron or Aura
* If I Act Okay, I Don't Feel the Scars
* Escaping Being the Cavacade's "Pit Princess"
* If I Treat Myself too much, it's Cause I Never got to be Normal

**Approaches**
Careful: `0`
Clever: `+1`
Flashy: `+1`
Forceful: `+2`
Quick: `+3`
Sneaky: `+2`

**Stunt:**
 
Because I *have a damaged aura that turns off and on all the time* Once per arc I can *absorb 4 stress from an attack because of a well timed aura resurgence.*

```

<!-- I WON'T HESITATE TO AVOID GETTING HURT
Invoke: Because..., Sona isn't afraid to be the first one to enter the cafe
Compel: Because..., Sona judges him on his bad action as a bad person.

MY WILL IS STRONGER THAN IRON OR AURA
Invoke: Because..., Sona cannot be convinced to take the easy way out.
Compel: Because..., Sona can't let go of her first impression of him. 

IF I ACT OKAY, I DON'T FEEL THE SCARS
Invoke: Because..., Sona can blend into the crowd of people.
Compel: Because..., Sona gets angry seeing a dog chained up.

ESCAPING BEING THE CAVALCADE'S "PIT PRINCESS"
Invoke: Because..., Sona can fight dirty and sucker punch him.
Compel: Because..., Cavalcade wants her back/revenge. Sona takes the fight one step too far, falling into old habits.

IF I TREAT MYSELF TOO MUCH, IT'S CAUSE I NEVER GOT TO BE NORMAL
Invoke: Because..., Sona knows about the local trends in outfits. 
Compel: Because..., Sona takes time out of training to indulge in a spa day she's always wanted.  -->

# Vitals

**Age:** 4th May

**Occupation**: Student

**Symbol:** 

A ring slicing into another, the latter shattering like glass. 

# Appearance

Sona stands at 5' 8" with long blonde hair reaching to between her shoulder blades, coloring leaning slightly towards a platinum blonde. It lies straight naturally. She rarely ties her hair, preferring it down, but when she does she does a very low sitting ponytail. If she's inclined she'll also clip the sides of her hair together behind her head, uncovering her human ears. Her bangs similarly fall straight naturally though she keeps them parted to the side. Her faunus feature is a pair of cat ears atop her head. The fur on her ears is more golden than her hair, making them stand out slightly. She has green eyes, which have a sharp quality to them. Her human ears are pierced. Sona has a lithe frame. She is not particularly busty but does have a well proportioned, 'hour glass' figure. 

## Vacuan Outfit

Sona's Vacuan outfit starts with a [leather jacket](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/7e/61/76/7e6176db42ac0642ad4079fa1cfc769a.jpg) that is only as long as the start of her hips. It's a worn, slightly darker than tan with plenty of cracks and age marks. It's completely broken in and very comfortable. Below that Sona has a [black short sleeve shirt](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/da/8b/47/da8b47e404f550e068de5bca0323399c.jpg) with openings in the shoulder and over the chest. She prefers the shirt as it keeps her a little cooler in the Vacuan heat. She wears it with [denim shorts](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/198932508526422502/) and a pair of [brown boots](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/0d/e3/6a/0de36a54706872deae9536930fd95c47.jpg) with the tops folded over, revealing the flannel patterned interior. Her socks are black and ankle high, with a white ring around the top. Sona wears a black choker in this outfit. 

In her Vacuan outfit, Sona wears a [leather holster](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/e2/36/5c/e2365c0cee7b5f7410cff0d1072f6fa0.jpg) belt. Mounted on the back are the sheathes for Talio and Venia, in their knife form. The holster the same color as her jacket. There are pouches mounted on the lower straps on both legs. She has loops for dust cartridges on either side of the belt piece. 


## Valean Outfit

Sona wears a [white and blue corset](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/02/15/93/0215935f159d6b96bf5ef80bc4f496ad.jpg) top which has a fairly low cut. There is a neck piece to the corset which she is fond of, buckling around her neck. It is thin enough it doesn't impede her neck movements (it's not as wide as the sample). Below the corset she has a [black shirt](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/cc/41/6c/cc416c50b855d778a75778e3238cf8b0.jpg) with long sleeves and cut outs on the upper arm. The shirt is tucked into a [blue skirt](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/ae/78/6a/ae786ad98663f1e7347c059ce61df3c6.jpg) of the same color as the corset that rests just above the hem. The skirt is high waisted, but most of the waist sits under the corset. The skirt is of a velvet linen, weighted material that retains heat well. She wears black tights that aren't 100% opaque. She has [knee high boots with a wool cuff](https://i.pinimg.com/564x/77/ce/c4/77cec4de54f1e0307a78bb1ebd1b3bce.jpg), the wool piece white while the boots themselves are a light brown. Finally, she wears the same leather jacket from her Vacuan outfit. 

In her Valean outfit, Sona has holsters for Talio and Venia's knife form on the belt of the corset. They rest cross on the small of her back. She has a pouch on that belt as well for other items, on her non dominant hand. She has loops for dust cartridges on the other side. 

# History

Sona was born in western Vacuo, far from the capital of Shade. The small border town was nothing particularly special, surviving on it's small population not attracting Grimm. Sona grew up as the leader of a group of wild children causing trouble for the adults, with little care in the world. She had her aura awoken at 9, increasing her ability to cause chaos. This lasted till she was ten years old. The village was raided by the Cavalcade bandit tribe. The adults were killed and the children were captured, taken back to the roving bandit camp. 

The Cavalcade take children to break them and make them part of the tribe society. Some embrace the wild, chaotic evil lifestyle and join the tribe themselves. Some are forced to fight each other for amusement, skilled fighters but unwilling to do the evil acts of a true tribe member. Some just become cowed slaves, doing labor and work at the camp out of fear of more abuse by the tribe. Some just shatter completely, broken shells that kicked around until a Grimm gets to them. Sona wouldn't fall into any of these categories. She never broke, nor embraced the evils of the tribe, no matter how much abuse she suffered in effort to break her will. She was often sent to fight in the slave combat rings, but she never made kills or even serious injuries. She was talented at combat and quickly mastered the art of taking down the other innocent fighter without maiming them. It didn't make her popular with the tribe, who wanted blood and gore as they watched. This netted more abuse to her, but Sona stood strong. Other times she'd be thrown in with labor groups, or paraded around so everyone could have a chance to 'kick the cat'. 

Her aura changed over the next year or two. Sona lost control of it, shattering earlier to give the bandits the satisfaction of wounds on her body. She learned to satisfy their need for bloodlust with the least amount of pain to her. Her aura would then resurge to heal the lesser wounds faster. Another prisoner dubbed it her "Nine Lives" due to her cat faunus traits.

Sona's perseverance became a camp wide obsession. Despite tears, screams, and pain she would always turn right back around on her abuser, glaring into them with hateful eyes. The tribe ate this up and tried harder and hard to break Sona's spirit. Sona fought back whenever she wasn't tied down, more often than not injuring her attackers and occasionally beating them off. This increases the Cavalcade's interest in the 'game' that she had become; if you failed to beat Sona you were a coward and failure, a laughing stock in the camp, but beating her made you a true Cavalcade member. Sona could be attacked at any time, making her days filled with paranoia. However, the non fighting abuse started to become less common, as it's not sporting to beat beaten game. 

When the chieftain was involved, the attempts to break her spirit were different. The chieftain is an intelligent man and brought mental trauma to the table. Sona would be dragged to the town square mid raid, forced to watch as townsfolk were killed, over and over. These events tore harder at Sona than the physical assaults. Her consonance was they'd do these things anyway, and they're just trying to get the rise from her. Her will holds, but nightmares begin to plague her.

Her chance to escape came from the chief's continued interest in her. The chief's wiser ways of trying to break her resolve fell short and the sadistic side of the man came free. He takes Sona from a victory over two of his men, deciding he'll personally end the game. He chains her to the pole of his tent, leaving her limited options. The chief leaves her with a single guard while he acquires the tools he had in mind for her. The guard however, wasn't to be trusted. 

The guard enters the tent, staring at Sona with lust in his eyes. Sona knew she had limited options in her current position. In a bout of quick thinking, she begins dancing on the around the tent pole. The guard had similar ideas in mind, and caves, thinking she already knows she's beaten. She uses the dancing as a cover to dislodging the pole. The tent crashes down on the two of them. Sona slides the chain off the pole, grasping for the chief's knives. The girl turns them on the guard, crashing on top of the man and stabbing him frantically. Years of hate and rage let themselves loose as she breaks his aura and murders the man in a rage. She stabs him long after he dies, only leaving at the sounds of the camp investigating. Sona bolts for the sands, escaping the camp after 6 years.

Sona nearly dies in the desert, only to be picked up by a caravan in tattered clothing and with a chain and collar around her neck. She wakes up in hospital in Shade confused. With help from local welfare and police Sona get identification and papers. Before they can take her to a foster home she bolts from the hospital, taking to the streets. She makes a meager living the next year and a half, learning the ways of the real world and making money anyway she can. 

# Personality

Sona is quick to judge, based on one's actions. She believes anyone who preforms evil acts is, if not will become, as bad as the Cavalcade who held her so long. These people need to be taken out before they can harm her in her eyes. Sona is, despite her strong will, terrified of losing the freedom she earned. She is full of a duality between outer strength and inner weakness. 

On the outside she is competent, talented, strong, savvy, and willful. She is pleasant and enjoys life, shopping, striving to regain the normality she never got a chance to have. Her strong willpower from her past gives her plenty of drive to complete her work and tasks, never acting lazy. She lacks in hobbies outside of shopping and working, but she's open to trying new things when she gets the opportunity. She can be hot headed and stubborn, especially when she seems something 'evil' in her eyes. She is quick to right wrongs, even when it's not her place to do so. She outwardly doesn't acknowledge the level of trauma she has suffered. She believes if she lets her willpower stop defending her, and she explores that trauma in her heart, she'll end up like an empty shell in the camp.

Sona's subconscious is, unlike herself, terribly aware of the pain she has suffered. It forces some manifestations of her hurts and Sona cannot stand it. She has a unconscious aversion of men, due to the Cavalcade being mostly men. It manifests as a shaking hand and twitch of the lips but even that small expression is enough to make Sona feel weak. Deep down she is striving desperately to become normal without ever addressing that which makes her not normal. She is terrified of being hurt more and that's where her harsh judgement comes from. She believes she's doing the right thing by attacking evil, but in reality she is merely trying to get them before they get to her. She doesn't like to be locked into places because she needs to feel she isn't prisoner. Sona is constantly tense, a side effect from paranoid years of random attacks by Cavalcade members. She can be twitchy and react poorly to surprises. She doesn't sleep well, and always sleeps lightly. These feelings scare Sona and she is unwilling to properly accept them, instead treating them as weaknesses to be squashed and eliminated. 

# Combat Ability

Sona is a quick and aggressive fighter. She gets up close and personal with opponents, not giving them space to make use of larger weapons or even react to her. Her weapons, Talio and Venia, small size compliment this style. Sona has more practice with the chakram form of her weapons and prefers them in practice. She is capable of catching opponents weapons in the ring to wrap them up, even using the leverage to yank the weapon from their hands. She uses the knife form when there's space requirements, and when she tries to make her weapons harder to follow. The lower profile single blade is harder for the opponent to track as she moves and she's practiced switching the grip on her blade mid swing. Sona tends to forget to use dust. She uses the throwing ability of the chakram only when closing distances or when unable to reach the target. 

Sona is a lightning bruiser. Her speed lets her dodge the majority of attacks made at her. She is well accustomed to being hurt and ignores pain well, allowing her to brush of hits and keep swinging. She doesn't think ahead in combat, instead relying on instinct in a fight. This gets her hit more than she needs to and she can get exhausted quickly, but she's able to do a lot of damage quickly. 

## Aura & Semblance

Sona's aura has developed in a unique way. Due to her past, she adapted to disable her aura before it properly shattered. Sona's aura shatters after a significant amount of damage, though it is not truly gone. After a serious hit in this pseudo shattered state her aura surges back to life. Effectively, every 3 or 4 hits on her aura causes it to drop, and when she takes a hit the aura returns. Her aura is truly shattered after 9 iterations of this behavior, which is why she called it her Nine Lives. Sona has no control over this behaviors, it's an ingrained habit she does subconsciously. 

Sona has an immobilization semblance, titled Statis. She can create a one foot square cube area in which everything contained is unable to move. She touches the side of the cube when it's created, so she must be with in touch distance of what she wants to freeze. She can freeze inanimate and living objects. When an object is only partially contained in the effect, only that part is stopped. For something like a sword, the static section of the sword holds the rest of it in place. For a person, if she freezes their left leg the person can still move their other limbs and muscles. Statis only lasts about 15 seconds before the area collapses and the frozen things can move again. Statis is also limited in that Sona has to remain nearby, approximately no more than 30 feet from the cube for it to remain active. 

Sona's semblance is a representation of her unbending will. She doesn't see it that way, and considers it a cruel joke by the universe that someone who was imprisoned for as long as she was would have the ability to capture someone else. She doesn't like her semblance for that reason. 

# Talio and Venia

*Retribution and Forgiveness* 

Talio and Venia are a pair of weapons, both effectively identical. Their first form is that of a knife, the blade being a little over a foot in length. The hilt is oddly long as well. There is a slight protrusion from the blade over the top of the hilt, keep the hand from sliding up over the blade.

The second form is that of a chakram, a bladed disk. the blade of the knife form rotates around and back, the tip of the knife sliding into the base of the hilt to form a circle. The blade of the knife form is telescoping, so despite the extension there is a bladed edge all the way from hilt end to end. Chakram are balanced for throwing like a boomerang and Sona's are no exception. Sona is well practiced with throwing them and knows how to catch the ring at the hilt consistently.  The circle is around a foot in diameter.

### Dust

Talio and Venia can use two forms of dust cartridge. Both use the same cartridge type, an approximately 6 inch canister that contains powdered dust. It is inserted into the hilt of either weapon, the chamber accessed by rotating the hilt. The first is filled with a single color of dust, while the second is filled with layered packets. The layered variant holds less dust due the dividers, but allows Sona to use multiple dust types without changing cartridge. 

Dust can be used in either form of the weapons. Both are able to pipe dust through the blade. When doing so with electric or fire dust it either electrifies or super heats the blade. The Chakram form can use wind dust when thrown to increase the spin speed and distance of the throw. 